I performed a multiple linear regression model on the MechaCar mpg dataset with mpg being the dependent variable. After completing the analysis, the vehicle weight and ground clearance are statistically significant in estimating mpg with p values <.001. Because the p-value is 5.35 X 10^-11, which is smaller that the significance level of 0.05%, We can state that there is sufficient evidence to reject our null hypothesis and that the slope of our linear model is not 0. The adjusted R-squared for the data is .7149 which means roughly 72% of all mpg predictions will be correct when using this model, which means it is effective in predicting mpg.

The summary statistics for the Suspension_coil dataset calculates to a mean of 1499.53, a median of 1499.531, standard deviation of 8.73 and a variance of 76.25. This has a symmetrical distribution with the mean and median being extremely close so this data is not skewed. The current manufacturing data meets the current design specification (variance suspension coils must not exceed 100 pounds per inch). The current variance is at 76.26 which is less than the max of 100.

For the coil suspension data, I performed a one-sided t-test to compare a sample to the population of the dataset since we were evaluating only one set of PSI measures from 150 results. Since the p value was .86 which is higher than .05 confidence interval we can infer that the means are statistically similar.

In order to compare the performance of the MechaCar prototype vehicle to other vehicles in the market, I would look at cost, size, fuel efficiency and safety rating as the top variables in order to create a competitive car in the automobile market. These would be prioritized among any consumer when shopping for a vehicle and these variables are constantly spoken about for marketing as wll to entice people to choose their brand of car. For my analysis, cost would be the dependent variable. For the mechaCar prototypes, I would review the parts cost for each and add a industry standard generic % increase to get an estimated car cost to consumer. I would then analyze all cars in the market that are generally around that cost and start comparing the fuel efficiency, size, and safety rating. The null hypothesis would be, can these variables be used to predict car cost. The alternative would be, these variables do not affect cost to consumer. I would performm a multiple linear regression analysis to review if these variables provide a non-random amount of variance to the cost values of the dataset.The data that would need to be collected are the variables mentioned - cost to the consumer, safety ratings, size and fuel efficiency. By reviewing these variables we can also see where the MechaCar will fit within the category and provide fact based data to consumers who want to know why they should choose the MechaCar over the next available car.



